# iT4SE-EP
Various bacteria use type IV secretion systems (T4SSs) to deliver effector molecules to a wide range of target cells. These substrate proteins, which are called type IV secreted effectors (T4SEs), manipulate host cell processes during infection, often resulting in severe diseases or even death of the host. Therefore, identification of putative T4SEs has become a very active research topic in bioinformatics due to its vital roles in understanding host-pathogen interactions and bacterial pathogenesis. PSI-BLAST profiles have been experimentally validated to provide important and discriminatory evolutionary information for various protein classification tasks. In the present study, an accurate computational predictor termed iT4SE-EP was developed for identifying T4SEs by extracting evolutionary features from the position-specific scoring matrix (PSSM) and the position-specific frequency matrix (PSFM) profiles. First, four types of encoding strategies were designed to transform protein sequences into fixed-length feature vectors based on the two profiles, including amino acid composition (AAC), evolutionary difference transformation (EDT), auto-covariance and cross-covariance (ACC), and discrete wavelet transform (DWT). Then, the feature selection technique based on the random forest (RF) algorithm was utilized to reduce redundant or irrelevant features without much loss of information. Finally, the optimal features were input into a support vector machine (SVM) classifier to carry out the prediction of T4SEs. Our experimental results demonstrated that iT4SE-EP outperformed most of existing methods based on the independent dataset test.
